Uncertainty of Requirements.
Just what makes requirements so uncertain.
Fact.
Poor up-front definition of requirements is one of the
major causes of failed software.
No surprise here.
Let's look deeper on what may cause this.
Successful software development is often affected and in fact,
hindered by the generally poor state of the process of requirements analysis,
the process by which an analyst conducts their analysis,
and by the artifacts that make up the requirements,
the documentation, mockups, work flows, data models,
and all of the other items you need to clearly and
accurately capture the requirements,
and possibly the ability of the technical business analyst who provides the
interpretation of the business rules and requirements.
The operative word here is interpretation.
So let's dive a little deeper into the activities of the analyst.
The business analyst,
the person doing the requirements gathering typically must
address and understand the following.
Who will be the real system users?
The stakeholders.
There may be many kinds or roles of users.
The analysts must fully understand and appreciate
the user's needs and expectations, which again,
are many and varied based on the roles of the users.
Also, how well is the problem domain understood?
Is it a complex sales order process?
Is it a multi system integration project?
Is it a migration to a new ERP system?
These all require either a deep and rich knowledge
base or the ability to figure it out.
Lastly, how rigorously, accurately,
and succinctly are the requirements captured in the specification document?
Many of the ones I have had to read are marginal at best.
But wait, there's more.
Uncertainty of Requirements (Part 2).
More importantly,
what I'd like to suggest to you is for a new software system or a
major enhancement the requirements will not be completely known
until after the users have used it.
But wait,
you mean to say they won't know what they really want until they use it?
That's crazy talk.
Because of the potential shortfalls that we have discussed,
the skills of the business analyst, documentation,
domain knowledge, communication skills, written and verbal,
and more we can say the following truism.
Uncertainty is inherent and inevitable in software development.
So what are we going to do about that?
We embrace and adapt uncertainty and don't fight it.
As we discussed,
you will not get all of the requirements right so let's adapt to a new process.
Avoid taking big steps.
Frequently stop, inspect, and adapt.
Have the shortest possible feedback loop back to your customer.
Deliver specifications and evaluate if it brings the values you
expected it would bring then decide what to deliver next.
By adopting new approaches, tools, and techniques,
such as the agile philosophy into your requirements gathering process,
you can minimize,
but not eliminate the uncertainty of the requirements gathering process.
In the following modules we will look at the tools,
processes to improve your ability in gathering requirements,
and the agile philosophy in its' relationship with
the requirements gathering process.
Are You Up for the Job?
Not everyone is cut out for gathering requirements.
Are you?
Let's talk about the key attributes you need to be more effective.
The ability to be an advocate for the customer,
to be in their shoes, and show empathy.
Strong communication and people skills so you can mediate and get diverse
groups of people to consensus even in the face of challenges.
Have good business acumen and a solid technical foundation so
you can provide deeper insights to the tradeoffs and
priorities of competing requirements.
Ability to gage and adapt to changing stakeholder expectations.
The more stakeholders you have,
the more time you will need to spend managing those expectations,
including conflicting expectations.
Understand what success means to the customer.
Envision the end results.
You need the ability to stay focused on the end results.
You need to possess a decisive character to confidently
and quickly arrive at results while not having all the
necessary information at hand.
So, if your job wasn't going to be hard enough, let's talk about the uncertainty of requirements themselves.